In my past job I had to teach a staff of about 60
restaurant servers about beer, so that's what we'll 
write about in here.

Lagers vs Ales:
Lagers and ales are different in a few main ways:
Lagers are cold fermented, typically around 40 degrees F
with a yeast that is "bottom fermenting" - that is to say, 
the yeast is active while in the bottom of the beer.
Typical examples of the style would be things like 
American Adjunct Lagers, German or Czech Pilsners, 
schwartzbiers, myriad bocks - Helles Bock, DoppelBock, regular bocks (amber), 
but NOT WeizenBocks - those are ales, and contain wheat!
There is less diversity in lager yeasts, and therefore you have 
less diversity in flavor profiles! Lagers are Malt-driven, and rely less
on flavors from hops, which is why cleaner Noble variety hops
are typically used. Since they are fermented cold, the yeast naturally
"cold-crashes" out, and you're left with a clearer beer with less flavor from yeast.

Ales, by contrast are fermented with top-fermenting yeasts, which are
active at warmer temperatures - typically around 70 degrees F, but work from 
about 60 degrees to as high as 90 degrees for saisons! There is HUGE diversity
in ale yeasts, ranging from yeast like sierra nevada's chico strain, used for
pale ales and IPAs, to traditional Belgian yeasts for Abbey ales, Dubbels, Tripels,
Quadrupels, Saisons, and everywhere in between for amber ales, brown ales, 
porters, stouts, and more. Ales are more yeast and hop driven in their flavor profiles, 
with esters and phenyls coming into play. Your typical hefeweizen has loads of
esters, which present as banana and bubblegum-like flavors. Unfiltered ales can be cold-crashed,
but in beers like hefeweizens or new england-style IPAs, it is not desired! Hops play a huge role
in ales, especially Pale Ales and IPAs, and can range in flavor from resiny and piney, to bright,
tropical, and citrusy, and even some, like mosaic hops, can have flavor descriptors such as
"cat pee". I kid you not.

Anyway, enjoy your favorite alcoholic libation (if you're of age)
over the Thanksgiving break!

Cheers!